fix up language in the packaging tutorial (#887)
NixOS/nix.dev: source/tutorials/packaging-existing-software.md

(packaging-existing-software)=
# Packaging existing software with Nix

> One of Nix's primary use-cases is in addressing common difficulties encountered with compiling software, such as specifying and obtaining dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of Nix's primary use-cases is in addressing common difficulties encountered with packaging software, such as specifying and obtaining dependencies.
```

The reason for this suggestion is to keep in line with line 14 and further down.

In the long term, Nix helps tremendously with alleviating such problems.
But when *first* packaging existing software with Nix, it's common to encounter errors that seem inscrutable.

> ## Introducton

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction
```

In this tutorial, you'll create your first [Nix derivations](https://nix.dev/manual/nix/2.18/language/derivations) to package C/C++ software.

> This takes advantage of the [Nixpkgs Standard Environment](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/stable/#part-stdenv) (`stdenv`), which reliably automates much of the work involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This takes advantage of the [Nixpkgs Standard Environment](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/stable/#part-stdenv) (`stdenv`), which automates much of the work involved.
```

### What will you learn?

The tutorial begins with `hello`, an implementation of "hello world" which only requires dependencies already provided by `stdenv`.
Next, you will build more complex packages with their own dependencies, leading you to use additional derivation features.

You'll encounter and address Nix error messages, build failures, and a host of other issues, developing your iterative debugging techniques along the way.

### What do you need?

- Familiarity with the Unix shell and plain text editors
- You should be confident with [reading the Nix language](reading-nix-language). Feel free to go back and work through the tutorial first.

### How long does it take?

Going through all the steps carefully will take ca. 60 minutes.

## Your first package

:::{note}

> A _package_ is a loosely defined Nixpkgs concept that refers to both a collection of files and other data, or a Nix derivation representing such a collection before it comes into being.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _package_ is a loosely defined Nixpkgs concept that refers to both a collection of files and other data, or a Nix derivation representing such a collection.
```

I am uncertain myself about this suggestion I am making. 
We don't want to imply that the derivation exists and matters only before the package realisation?

Author: It didn't say *only*. That's exactly why derivations matter, they're the "before package artifact exists" part. But I don't think we need to go into that depth here.

Packages have mostly standardised attributes and output layouts, allowing them to be discovered in searches and installed into environments alongside other packages.

For the purposes of this tutorial, "package" means something like "result of a derivation".

> This is the artifact you or others will use, as a consequence of having "packaged existing software with Nix".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the artifact you or others will use, as a consequence of having "packaged existing software with Nix", typically by use of the [nix-build](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/command-ref/nix-build) command.
```

Author: Thanks for pointing that out. Since I was sort of mindlessly going through the text, I failed to notice a key issue I noticed many people had discussed in the past but not clearly resolved: as the "what's a package note" highlights, we have this tension between final artifact (file system objects) and the artifact that produces the final one (derivation).

This sentence is slightly unclear about what we mean, and your suggestion is to pick one. I suppose we sort of care about both, but probably a bit more about the second here. Because we're writing the derivation code, and the final artifact is made automatically. I'll think about it and make a new suggestion how to phrase it.

```

### Finding the file hash
As expected, the incorrect file hash caused an error, and Nix helpfully provided the correct one.

> Substitute substitute it into `hello.nix` to replace `lib.fakeSha256`:

Reviewer 2: Nit: "Substitute X to replace Y" feels incorrect, since "substitute" and "replace" are the same action here. It would be simpler to write the following:

```suggestion
In `hello.nix`, replace `lib.fakeSha256` with the correct hash:
```

Great news: the derivation built successfully!

The console output shows that `configure` was called, which produced a `Makefile` that was then used to build the project.

> It wasn't necessary to write any build instructions in this case because the `stdenv` build system is based on [GNU Autoconf](https://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/), which automatically detected the structure of the project directory.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence implies `autoconf` itself detected the structure of the project, which is incorrect.

Author: What would you suggest here?

Unfortunately in this case, [searching for `x11`](https://search.nixos.org/packages?query=x11) produces too many irrelevant results because X11 is ubiquitous.
On the left side bar there is a list package sets, and [selecting `xorg`](https://search.nixos.org/packages?channel=23.11&buckets={%22package_attr_set%22%3A[%22xorg%22]%2C%22package_license_set%22%3A[]%2C%22package_maintainers_set%22%3A[]%2C%22package_platforms%22%3A[]}&query=x11) shows something promising.

In case all else fails, it helps to become familiar with searching the [Nixpkgs source code](https://github.com/nixos/nixpkgs) for keywords.

### Git and `rg`

To find name assignments in the source, search for `"<keyword> ="`.
For example, these are the search results for [`"x11 = "`](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3ANixOS%2Fnixpkgs+%22x11+%3D%22&type=code) or [`"libx11 ="`](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3ANixOS%2Fnixpkgs+%22libx11+%3D%22&type=code) on Github .

Or fetch a local clone of the repository and use `rg`.
Nixpkgs is huge.
Only clone the latest revision if you don't want to wait a long time:

```console
$ nix-shell -p git ripgrep
[nix-shell:~]$ git glone https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs --depth 1
```

> Nixpkgs is *huge*, therefore specify which subdirectory you want to search:

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to emphasize its size twice within the same paragraph :smile:

Author: Yes, a failed attempt to be funny.

pkgs/applications/graphics/imv/default.nix
38:    x11 = [ libGLU xorg.libxcb xorg.libX11 ];

pkgs/tools/X11/primus/lib.nix
14:    if nvidia_x11 == null then libGL

pkgs/top-level/linux-kernels.nix
573:    ati_drivers_x11 = throw "ati drivers are no longer supported by any kernel >=4.1"; # added 2021-05-18;
... <a lot more results>
```

Since `rg` is case sensitive by default,
Add `-i` to make sure you don't miss anything:

```
[nix-shell:~]$ rg -i "libx11 =" pkgs
pkgs/applications/version-management/monotone-viz/graphviz-2.0.nix
55:    ++ lib.optional (libX11 == null) "--without-x";

pkgs/top-level/all-packages.nix
14191:    libX11 = xorg.libX11;

pkgs/servers/x11/xorg/default.nix
1119:  libX11 = callPackage ({ stdenv, pkg-config, fetchurl, xorgproto, libpthreadstubs, libxcb, xtrans, testers }: stdenv.mkDerivation (finalAttrs: {

pkgs/servers/x11/xorg/overrides.nix
147:  libX11 = super.libX11.overrideAttrs (attrs: {
```

### `nix-locate`

Consider using `nix-locate` from the [`nix-index`](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-index) tool to find derivations that provide what you need.

> You will need the `Xlib.h` headers from the `X11` C package, the Nixpkgs derivation for which is `libX11`, available in the `xorg` package set.

Reviewer 3: This conclusion should be common for all three subsections here. Maybe move it to the beginning of the section, something like

> You will need the `Xlib.h` headers from the `X11` C package, the Nixpkgs derivation for which is `libX11`, available in the `xorg` package set.
>
> There's different ways to figure this out:
